thanks for joining us we begin this new
Z on Israel where Court in Tel Aviv has
ordered that a major Nationwide strike
must now end Israel's largest Trade
union staged the protest saying it wants
to pressure the government of Benjamin
Netanyahu into signing a gaza's
ceasefire and captive release deal with
Hamas the action was called after the
bodies of six Israeli captives were
recovered from a tunnel in southern Gaza
on Saturday a labor Court accepted the
government's petition that the strike
was politically motivated
joins me here on set in Doha and she's
here of course because the Israeli
government has prohibit prohibited us
from reporting from Israel itself hamda
you know the country you've worked there
you've reported there extensively the
courts may have ordered this strike to
be over but give us a given the scale of
the demonstrations we've we've seen give
us a sense of where public sentiment is
right now well public sentiment as we
saw last night was unprecedented with
nearly 300,000 demonstrators in Tel Aviv
half a million demonstrators across
Israel and today there are large crowds
thousands of people in the streets and
the head of the labor union released a
statement saying that he respects the
decision by the court and that the
strike itself was a show of solidarity
even though the court said it was Pol
politically motivated that it was a show
of solidarity among the Israeli public
that the release of the captives should
supersede all but then there was another
statement from the hostage and missing
families forum who said that even though
the strike is going to end the protests
need to continue and they're calling and
encouraging on people to still continue
to take to the streets and in fact the
head of the labor union is set to speak
around 700 p.m. local time at a
demonstration he says that he's also
going to continue protesting as well uh
how Benjamin Netanyahu actually
addressed any of this unrest or is he is
he bonding Against Time well look there
were some reports within Israeli media
last night saying that Netanyahu was a
little bit worried and this is citing
Anonymous officials of course speaking
to Israeli media they said that he was
worried about the size and scale of
these protests these are some of the
largest demonstrations that Israel has
seen the last time we saw something of
this kind of scale this magnitude even
where the labor union had a strike as
well was around a year and a half ago
when they were protesting a different
issue so there were reports that he was
a little bit worried but there hasn't
been anything that's come from the
office of the Israeli Prime Minister but
he has previously said that he's doing
what he can to secure a deal and that
includes military pressure that he would
fight the war despite all the
international and domestic pressure
that's coming his way he would prosecute
it however he saw fit but this time
there's a little bit of a different
sense within Israel because these
captives according to Israeli
intelligence were alive just a few days
ago and had there been a ceasefire deal
the family say they would have been
alive and back home all right ham many
thanks that ham Salud
there right we are getting some news in
to us about a strike in Gaza hany mmud
is live in Dera Bala in central Gaza
hany what can you tell
us just just couple minutes couple
minutes ago an air strike just struck uh
struck the Gate of the hospital that's
that's actually few meters away from
where we are standing here since early
hours of this morning the Skies of the
Central Area mainly above the hospital
this hospital was clouded with many of
the drones you can hear them in the
background and for the past few hours
we've been talking to each other that
the presence the dense presence of these
attack drones is for a reason here and
just within the past couple minutes huge
air strike that is right next to the
gate of the hospital we're getting now
of confirmed reports judging from what
what I'm looking at right now but
because it's a massive explos ion the
dust and the debris just covered main
parts of the hospital when I talk about
next to the gate of the hospital just
the landscape of the area this is a a
road that is at about 8 m wide and
across from the gate there is a house
that has been already bombed at the
initial weeks of the war it's been
targeted again now the debris and the
the dust all come to the Courtyard of
the hospital as we speak right now this
is we would been mning of the the dense
presence of these drones and we we did
not expect it to happen right at this
time but it did happen as you can hear
in the background the the buzz sound of
these attack drones is still in the
skies and still clouding the Skies of
the Central Area mainly above the
hospital see where as you see from the
frame of the camera these are one of the
injuries a child who happened to be hit
by a shrapnel there's another one also
being rushed inside the hospital and
this is from the flying shrap naels and
de breeze as the explosion was quite
intense I'm I'm not sure if you guys
could hear that in the studio but it was
so deafening it was so loud here honey
we can most definitely hear the
continual sound of drones uh above you
Israeli military drones are you
suggesting it was one of those drones
that carried out the specific strike and
do we know what the intended target was
then
[Music]
well what we know so far it's a house
that has been already bombed but the
fact that it's not far from the hospital
this has already created a sense of
intimidation a sense of fear and concern
as people remember within the past few
days right before the announcement of
the pause in the fighting in the Central
Area because of the vaccination campaign
people were literally told by the is
really military as they received
messages and received they read the the
leaflets that were dropped by the Israel
army to go back to these blocks 128 129
130 they're all next to each other and
they were told they are safe literally
the word safe was in those text messages
was in those deflet and people were told
to get back to these areas and now the
the explosion just took place just
shattered any sense of safety that
remain to people also it shatter any
sense of a trust in the narrative about
the pauses in the fighting as again this
is very similar to what the Israeli
military has been doing in the past 10
months it's all it's full of lies it's
misleading it's contradictory it's fake
people told to go to areas to avoid
being bombed and they get bombed and
they get killed they get bed in the very
particular areas and locations they were
told to go to this is we we we keep
monitoring the development of this is
story but the fact it's happening
without any prior warning whatsoever
this Road next to the gate of the
hospital is quite busy at this
particular time of the day it's more of
like a rush hours it's a market place
here people tend to leave their tents
leave to to tend to leave the areas
where they evacuated we they have been
evacuated in and come to this road and
particular streets leading to the gate
of the hospital and buying and shop and
restock from whatever is available here
so it's really a busy hour quite more of
a like a rush hour uh in the
area and what we're getting now
consistent than what I was saying the
street was full of it of hundreds of
people either those who are coming back
to their homes taking their belongers
and taking the very Road where the bomb
where the explosion happens going back
to the eastern part of Dar balah City or
the vicin of the hospital when the
explosion
happen all right hany many thanks for
that update we we'll of course come back
to you um as and when we get more
information just to clarify hany and the
rest of the team have been reporting on
the roll out of polio vaccines uh one of
the centers there in der Al Bala just to
repeat what we've just heard from hany
what appears to have been a strike uh
possibly carried out by an Israeli
military drone on a Target close to the
gates of that hospital as I say on day
two of the polio vaccine rollout
something that the Israeli military said
they would provide a safe Corridor to
allow civilians uh uh to get to and to
allow them to be vaccinated um Let's uh
move on and speak to Anan Pape he's an
Israeli historian and professor at the
University of extor he's joining us from
Chicago um Anan a very warm welcome to
you so you probably heard the uh the
Panic the fear uh the pandemonium uh
outside the hospital in Dera Bala many
many children across Gaza have been told
that they could safely go and be
vaccinated receive their polio uh drops
to avoid the mass spread of disease in
Gaza and now this strike when it comes
to hopes of a lasting ceasefire
establishing trust is vital but it's
massively in short supply when we see
incidents like
this yes indeed and I'm afraid we've
been there before when supposedly safe
zones for Palestinians in Gaza were
bombed and uh this keeps repeating
itself and this is part of the general
picture that we are facing which is an
Israeli Prime Minister who is adamant in
continuing uh the situation of the war
as he would see it as long as he can
until the next elections in Israel in
2026 and he would do everything possible
to make sure that uh there is no uh uh
no conditions no
circumstances uh for ending uh the
Israeli genocidal attack on
Gaza and I think uh uh the kind of
cynical we have just heard about just
momentarily is one
indication that uh this kind of uh
inhuman cynicism would be perpetrated
again and again I'm afraid uh unless
there is an external intervention uh uh
that might have the ability to stop it
uhan talking about interventions while
we are having this discussion we're
looking at live pictures from West
Jerusalem vast numbers of people still
out on the street there despite the
labor Court ordering the end of the
strike that was called by the trade
Union on the basis that it was
politically motivated said the court how
do you interpret that aren't all strikes
inherently politically
motivated yes of course they are uh this
is just uh the way that uh the legal or
those who represent the legal system in
Israel are trying to navigate between
their full understanding
and they already recognize that
Netanyahu has
breached almost every law in in in the
book of laws of Israel on the one hand
and and the fact that they depend on him
H to survive in their positions whether
it is the uh uh Pro prosecutor the chief
prosecutor or the legal advisor to to
the government and therefore uh this is
just a play this is a game this is
nothing to do with legality or
illegality
this is a balance of power by which
until now at least the base of Netanyahu
his Coalition allies and him himself are
still the ones who determine Israeli
policies inside Israel and towards the
Palestinians in Gaza in the West Bank
and towards the North and towards South
Lebanon we're talking about pressure now
from outside the country we understand
that the United States could be poised
to offer a so-call take it or leave it
ultimatum to Benjamin Netanyahu that
could spell a possible end to us
mediation efforts in bringing about a
ceasefire what might that potentially
mean for Netanyahu if it
happens well again I it's funny how how
we sort of think that we are hearing
some dramatic news where actually we we
see the repeat of the same news again
and again there were we were already in
this point where the Americans said what
we are proposing now is take it it and
then they came again and said no this
time we really mean it's take it or
leave it and I'm afraid this was going
to be the same netan is going to reject
the American proposal whatever it is uh
because as I said in my early answer uh
his main strategy is to continue the
situation of the war Because he believes
that's the only way that can ensure his
political survival uh he doesn't think
that the Americans are in any position
to really pose danger to his
own uh uh position in in the government
because we are uh 60 days before the the
elections and therefore this is all
going to be there's going to be a lot of
talk about very little action on the
ground and I'm afraid uh we need
something far more drastic than an
American proposal that tries to satisfy
netanyahu's demands that keep changing
because he doesn't want a deal and he
doesn't doesn't want to end the fighting
when you say something far more drastic
is needed what does that look like to
you well definitely not what I heard
from camela Harris in the Democratic
Convention a week ago here in Chicago uh
we we we need a position if not by the
American at least by the Europeans and
at least by the European countries who
already showed some uh uh conscious
conscientious position uh to treat is
well as a as a pariah state that commits
a crime against humanity namely genocide
in Gaza and that should be translated
into sanctions uh into stopping military
support for Israel financial support uh
but I'm afraid and I have to be
realistic this is not going to happen uh
in the next 60 days uh or it won't come
in the next 60 days from Washington uh
it just remains to be seen is the world
really run by the United States stay
alone or are there
other powers that can change the balance
of power on the ground in Gaza because
the genocide continues and as you have
reported it has now moved into the West
Bank so uh and and it won't stop by any
internal Dynamics in Israel the only way
to stop it is an international uh uh
coordinated effort to make sure that
Israel pays a price that is high enough
to persuade it policy makers that it's
time to stop the
genocide Pape it's been a pleasure to
have you on aler thank
you make sure to subscribe to our
channel to the latest news from Al jazer